# Todo App (Synchronized)
A multi-platform Todo app for taking down task, checking them when done or deleting them (maybe when forgetting about them)

# Table of content
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Features](#features)
- [How it works](#how-it-works)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Authentication](#authentication)
        - Signin and Signup
    - [Task](#tasks)
        - create, check, delete tasks
- [Contribution](#contribution)

<h1></h1>

# Overview

A todo app which is similar to the regular Todo app, except that it supports live synchronization with different platforms on same account. For example, if a user logs in to the Web platform, and at the same time logs in to the mobile platform, any changes made to the todo tasks on any of the platforms is immediately reflected on the other device.


# Features
The features of this app includes:

- Light/dark mode
- Create/check/delete tasks
- Live synchronization between platforms on same account
- Drag and drop

# How it works
The way it works is simple, after login, a bidrectional connection to the server is initialized using socket.io, and changes made to the authenticated user data is automatically communicated to active connections of the authenticated, in real time.

# Usage
Using the app is simple, weather on mobile or web. The following should considered.


## Authentication

The first thing required to use the app is to authenticate (signin/signup). Data required includes:

- Signin: data required for creating an account on the platform
```js
{
    username: string, // either username or email
    password: string,
}
```

- Signup: data required to login on the platform
```js
{
    username: string, // platform supports alphabets, numbers, and underscore, ad must not be less than 5 characters.
    email: string,
    password: string, // password is encrypted when created.
}
```

## Tasks
The includes create, checkout, delete tasks. Each task data includes:
```js
{
    task: string,
    completed: bool, // true for checked, false for unchecked
    // Meta data
    _id: string, // generated by system (server)
    date_created: Date,
    last_updated: Date,
    platform: string, // either web or mobile

    // Each task is connected to user as Many to one
}
```


# Contribution

To contribute to this project, first have it running well on your computer, then make your update and pull request and I'll check it out and merge your contribution.

To get it running on your system, do well to do the following:

- clone this repo
- navigate into the clone repo (a directory in your computer) and run `npm install`
- then run `npm start`

> I used nodemon, so the project supports hot-reload during development.

